---
id: truth
title: Single Source of Truth
author: Jack Zheng
author_title: Sysl Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/cuminandpaprika
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/25007585?s=460&u=a1282d7301274dea85f7d19458f5c9978071a86e&v=4
tags: []
---

In software engineering, we commonly hear the phrase "single source of truth". It often gets used in the context of duplication, and ties in well with some other common engineering principles such as *DRY - Don't Repeat Yourself*. The single source of truth principle is a central theme for our team and we aim to build tools which help with adherence to this principle.

We interpret *Single Source of Truth* in two ways.

- Firstly, an application should be described when initially designed in an expressive specification language. This is where the `sysl` language comes in. When a system first starts as an idea to when it becomes materialised through code, Sysl lets you iterate and work with a single point of design: the application's sysl file.

- The other way that *single source of truth* is commonly interpreted is the ability to find all the information about any application in your team / project / organization in a single place. This is what `sysl-catalog` is designed to solve: A tool that enables you to see everything about all your systems in one place. We are still in the early stages of defining what `sysl-catalog` will look like as it matures, but at its core, it's designed to give you a *single source of truth* for all the awesome applications you're building.

